Canadians are in the most amount of debt
they have ever been this has all been
Thanks to Rising interest rates this is
courtesy of easy monetary
policies this circular Madness cannot
continue forever there can always be
foreigners or Central Bankers who will
buy up anything but the majority of the
people will still be hit hard in the
pocketbook and the day
of Reckoning is upon us you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you today we're going to look
specifically at Canada I want to focus
on the debt issue that has really
accumulated over the past few years
become a real big problem so you can see
the chart on the right hand side
year-over-year house price change in
Canada's biggest cities and you'll
notice Toronto right at the top of the
list it has become astronomical
how expensive properties have become in
such a short period of time I have been
warning about this I've been talking
about this even locally and people just
don't want to admit that these prices
have gone too high and the reason is my
speculation is that many of these people
have pulled the equity out of their
properties in hopes that they will
continue to rise housing prices post
record June rise so what we are looking
at here is the biggest June rise on
record
2.6% increase so this doesn't surprise
me at all I do believe that look it can
continue there's no doubt the question I
have is at what point do interest rates
have to hit before we have a before we
have a big problem there is no question
in my mind that this cannot be sustained
with higher rates of Interest this is
being fueled by debt most people will
simply say I really don't care what it's
fueled by as long as I make more money
and I can definitely agree with what
people are saying I get what you're
saying however interest rates will
finally get to a point where they reach
that let's call it Tipping Point or
breaking point and people can't afford
it it's not as if people are coming in
and they are paying cash for their
properties sometimes that happens but
ultimately most people most purchases
are being
financed maximum amount of debt and the
public doesn't want to really address
that scenario you don't need 20%
although that's what they would
recommend many people today are buying
with 5% down and 5% down on a million
dollar property you really don't need to
have much they do these stress tests to
pretend that they'll be able to
withstand a much higher rate of interest
should interest rates rise at some point
however we know that the data has been
made out to be fraudulent that is a fact
not in all cases assuredly but with the
alternative lenders we don't know
exactly what they're doing can Canadians
have heard the message over and over
again from the Bank of Canada and so on
personal debt levels are alarmingly high
especially in light of the interest
rates that are only poised to increase
I've been talking about this for quite
some time it you look like a fool at
this
time however when we look back in the
past and we notice all of these things
that have happened
it really takes on a different message
but at this time I'm willing to be
ridiculed because I know the how valid
these points are why aren't those
warnings convincing Canadians to borrow
less the answer May lie in a combination
of blissful Finance ignorance economic
incentives to keep borrowing and complex
subconscious attitudes towards debt we
are
comfortable carrying debt and that is a
fact fact if you talk to people from
Toronto you will hear this similar thing
that they don't care I mean look how
much it takes to finance it when you can
get a car for 0%
financing when you can get your home
when you only need 5% of the total you
own that whole home but you only put 5%
down and sometimes less but let's say
even
5% it's really people think about it and
they think why bother why do I need to
save up 100% of the home before I move
out when I could only put down
5% when you look at it that way makes a
lot of sense to
me but unfortunately this is going to
become a big
burden and in the US what a lot of
people did was they simply walked away
from their home homes as I've said
before you can't have that in Canada it
doesn't work like that there will be
massive amounts of
bankruptcies that occur as a result
people are not able to afford the homes
that they've bought and they'll know
that in the near future I don't know
when but interest rates are rising
that's the plan that they're going with
apparently and if they continue to do so
you're going to have a very big problem
I assure you I sound like a broken
record but here we are Canadian's
appetite for debt is as insatable as
ever a new report credit monitoring from
Equifax suggests that Canadian consumers
owned $1.7
trillion at the end of the first quarter
that's
6.9% in a year doesn't really surprise
me one bit and when you talk about 1.7
you have to remember that the Canadian
economy is significantly smaller than
the US economy so that doesn't really
look good for the future um despite
increasing debt numbers more monthly
payments are being made on time and
there are fewer bankruptcies these are
fraudulent numbers we've seen what
they've done in the US where they simply
wipe bad debt off or bad basically wipe
off the bad off of people's credit
reports and that allows them to have a
better credit report what kind of why
even have a credit rating if you can
simply manipulate it it's just like the
inflation rates and everything else how
do we have any trust in any of these
institutions when they're simply
manipulating it in their favor tomorrow
it could be quite the opposite you don't
know today they're benefiting those who
are taking a lot of debt tomorrow
certainly could be quite the opposite
okay now looking at Switching gears here
for a moment if you can't afford a home
you don't have to worry because you can
sleep in one of these that's right these
are
essentially coffins the way I look at it
shared compartment service appears in
Office Buildings in
Shanghai it's sort of a futuristic type
compartment slash
coffin
and this is you know it's hard to look
at to imagine that people are working so
much that they don't want to go home
they can sleep in these and it's
interesting actually it says that they
automatically disinfect with ultraviolet
light after each use so it's not just
necessarily A a box there's some
technology involved here
but the way I think of it is the amount
of population that is located in some of
these cities
is insane then you have the costs
involved that people are simply you know
they don't want to take their Transit
back it's going to take them an hour or
two or what have you to get back home so
they simply say look I'll just sleep
here I'm only going to be sleeping for 5
hours anyway might as well just sleep in
this box and then then head back to work
and why why are we doing all of this the
whole system is broken why are you at
work 16 hours of the day when you should
be doing whatever it is that you want to
do spending time with your family uh
reading a book whatever it is that you
fancy but essentially everything has
been turned upside down things have
become so expensive but people just
don't want to think about it it's
ridiculous look at the system it's
broken and and just look at
it people most people maybe not you
maybe not the person you're thinking
about but a lot of people work
themselves to the Bone so that they can
afford that car that they drive to work
in so that they can afford that luxury
condo or maybe that beautiful home that
they have and they're spending spending
spending spending all these uh monthly
subscriptions that they have have and
everything else yet they're not
concerned about the thing that is
most important and that is the
well-being of that individual that's
what I see when I see these boxes that's
exactly what I think
about all
right this is changing gears yet again
when prosecutors first push for the
power to seize telephone and internet
records themselves by passing the need
for a judge to approve a warrant they
argued the power was necess necessary to
help them quickly track down missing
children and sexual
predators and it shows here that the
prosecutors have used the significant
subpoena power hundreds of times a year
in routine investigations related to
Larsen check fraud assault and other
common crimes guess what they steal our
information and it's not just the NSA
and the powers that go sort of in the
shadows it is the Reg their government
which is going through and able to
access any of our data that's a fact
it's coming
out it is very important I believe to
look at this type of information and
realize our government is gone we don't
have we shouldn't have any trust in
these institutions at all they are
overrun by corporations who have one
thing in mind and that is not your best
interests I assure you that's why I
suggest to people that when you invest
in these corporations you're investing
in the same part of that same
conglomerate that steals your
Liberty that for me anyway you do what
you want but for me I don't want any
part of that if you found this video
informative please give me a thumbs up
last but not least if you found the
video video informative I know you'll
find my books the money GPS and my new
release global economic appps even more
informative the first book is about the
four asset classes and how to profit
from them whereas my new book takes on
familiar Concepts but I get into what I
call the money GPS strategy and that is
how to reduce your monthly expenses how
to earn income and other things so you
can check that out at Amazon links are
in the description below and just wanted
to mention thank you all for your
comments on yesterday's video where I
took on a really different topic that
I've covered recently I haven't covered
that topic in a long time and I just saw
a lot of positivity towards me covering
that it's not something that I want to
cover all the time I had you know done a
lot of research on that many many years
ago and
then it's hard to to look into that type
of information you know it really takes
a toll on somebody to just pour over it
hours and hours and hours and then try
to tell other people about it
it's you know it's difficult anyway so I
do appreciate that you appreciated it so
that's all take care